So I will start with a generic model for
multimedia processing.
[COUGH] Before we get to that,
you would have already realized that
communication of data is very expensive.
Either we use a dedicated circuit
switch network or on the internet.
We saw in the previous course that
wideband speech can take up to 224 kbps.
In the CD quality audio, the sampling
rate and the bits per sample for
the increased dynamic range
we have in CD quality audio,
we need about 1.4 megabits per second.
Usually the payload rates
are higher when you increase the,
include the overhead, like [COUGH]
forward data correction, markers for
random access in the media,
so on and so forth.
So let's just look at the content
itself in the payload just so
that we can keep things apples to apples.
For still images,
there are three components.
Red, blue, and green streams that
come from typical camera sensors.
Each of them requires
eight bits per pixel.
So, if you have a 1024 by 1024 image,
we need
3.14 megabytes for each image.
In the case of video, we have similar
images coming from the sensor
attached at 24 frames per second,
30 frames per second, or
even 60 frames per second in
some of the new handsets.
So you can see that the data rates will
very quickly reach gigabits per second.
So these rates are not really
compatible with the Internet services.
And we need to compress the data either
for transmissions, storage and retrieval.
So a generate block diagram that
does this, [COUGH] is this.
It leverages some of the tools we already
discussed in the previous course.
So for now, ignore the yellow blocks and
follow the signal from
source to destination.
The time frequency decomposition
block push the signals in a space
where we can take advantage of
known properties of the signal.
The inverse time frequency decomposition
typically results, if you do things
correctly, in perfect reconstruction
of the original signal, if we do
not have any of the intermediate processes
that are shown in the block diagram.
In the case of voice, this was LPC
analysis where we took advantage
of the known properties of the source that
is the human speech production system.
This is not so in the case of image and
video processing systems
as we will see shortly.
So in the case of audio,
we actually take advantage of
known properties of the sync,
that is the human auditory system.
What exactly do we listen to
when we are listening to a CD?
So the time frequency block itself does
not give us any data rate reduction.
It is the quantization block that gives us
more steady reduction in the data read.
The dotted feedback path
in the receiver represents
techniques such as backward adaptation
we saw in the waveform coding,
such as g.726 in course four.
We also saw in the previous course
that not all patterns that are current
there in the text are the process
data that comes with the Quantizer.
They all have uniform distributions
just like the English text.
So Entropy Coding provides additional
reductions in the data rate
by taking advantage of this
non-uniform distributions.
The RTP block provides for
real time transmission or
the internet for storage and retrieval.
There are similar protocols such
as TCP/IP, HTML streaming, etc.
The feedback path provided by RTCP
around the communication block,
it's very,
very useful as we saw in the voice case.
This becomes even more important for
the video streaming case,
because every short channeler has
significant impact on the video quality.
Now, let's take a look at the yellow
blocks on the sender side.
When there is temporal or spacial or
spectral redundancy in the signals,
we can actually
predict what the next frame or
the next sample is going to be.
And then we can subtract
this from the incoming data
to reduce the bit rate further.
This is what we did in the CELP case, that
is the Code-excited linear prediction.
And there are similar things that we
can do for the other types of signals.
So just to recap, here is the spirit
of processing we do at the end quarter.
The time-frequency decomposition puts
the signal in a different space,
so that we can take advantage of
the redundancy in the signals and
ignore the irrelevant parts.
These are the two operative words.
Redundancy and irrelevancy using
our prior knowledge of the signals.
For redundancy, think of a pure tone.
It has all the samples in
the time domain but you need only
two samples to represent it very
compactly in the frequency domain.
Similarly if you have short
transients in the time domain
you get to have very wide
spectral distribution.
[COUGH] So you can have very compact
representation in the time domain or
transient and very compact representation
in the frequency domain for
tonal sounds [COUGH].
For the irrelevancy part,
the more you know about the signals,
the source and the sync,
the more irrelevant parts that we can
identify and take advantage of
them as we do this process.
And as we discussed before,
the quantization step implements
a lossy bitrate reduction scheme.
We simply assign fewer bits
to the parts that are less
relevant based on what we already know.
Then comes the Entropy Coding.
There are many types of entropy
coding systems that we can leverage
in the pipeline.
But, for now, I want you to realize,
recognize, that the entropy coding
is a loss-less compression and
quantization is a lossy compression.
[COUGH] So let's look at some
of the options we have for
the time frequency decomposition.
We already saw LPC in the previous course.
Other than that, the short-time fourier
transform is the basic work hours
because it doesn't make any assumption
about the source or the sync.
The picture at the bottom left shows
the tiling of components in the STFT.
The resolution in the time domain
along the x axis [COUGH] and
the frequency domain on the y axis.
The magnitude in each of
the ties in this representation
is the intensity which is same as this
pictogram pictures we saw before.
The other common technique that is
used a lot in the visual processing
is the Gabor Transform proposed
by Dennis Gabor in the late 40s.
This is very much similar to
STFT except it uses Gaussian
window in the time domain before taking
FFT on each of the sharp segments.
We call that, if you use short
windows in the STFT, we have very good
temporal resolution, but this results
in a very poor spectral resolution.
On the other hand,
if we want very fine spectral resolution,
we need to have very long
time domain segments.
And this will end up at very
poor temporal resolution.
This is actually related
to Heisenberg's uncertainty
principle as applied to signal processing.
In the Gabor transform, because we use
a Gaussian window in the time domain,
it is also a Gaussian window
in the frequency domain.
So, we have the most
compact representation
in this class of time-frequency
representations.
The next one that you'll come
across a lot in JPEG, JPEG 2000,
and other video processing
is the Wavelet Transform.
It uses a different basis functions, as
opposed to Short-time Fourier, or Gabor.
Instead of the exponential functions
with constant window length anywhere in
the tiling, we use much shorter windows
in the time domain for higher frequencies.
This results in very fine spectral
resolution in the lower frequencies and
very fine temporal resolution
in the higher frequencies.
In terms of that disease very
similar to the human perception
of audio and video signals.
I just realized that
the figure on the bottom right
does not quite show the varying
frequency resolution in the Y axis.
I should remember to
re-draw this in future.
I do encourage you to take a look at the
links here, at least even very briefly,
to see if these are the topics
you want to explore in future,
because each one of them is very big.
It can be a complete course or
a lesson by itself.
So, I put, for
the entropy coding, two links up here for
you to do some further digging.
[COUGH]
The Huffman coding,
we talked about it in course four
with respect to the English text.
It is essentially
a variable length code and
it is computationally extremely simple.
So it has been used in many,
many practical implementations when
the processing in the mobile
platforms was still at very premium.
So, simple example.
Let's say we have four symbols, a1 through
a4, with probabilities of occurrence and
given some corpus,
sorted in the descending order.
So, you need a large representative
database to generate these
probabilities for all the symbols and real
systems but let's just look at this form.
In the process of building
the Huffman tables,
what happens is a1 gets assigned the
shortest code word, it is 0 in this case.
[COUGH] The Huffman is also a prefix code.
This means that a2, a3 and
all rest of the code works.
They shall not start with
the code word for a1.
They all have unique prefix.
So as you go to lower probability symbols,
we have to find longer code words
that do not have the earlier
code words as the prefix.